The opening song of our convention program
reminded us
that “our reasons for joy are abundant”
and that true joy “is well-founded,
with roots reaching deep in God’s Word.”
Just as a tree anchors itself
in the earth’s nourishing soil,
so true joy is anchored
in the sayings of Jehovah.
And those sayings
promise us joy that will last forever.
But isn’t it also true
that Satan’s world promises to give us joy?
Yet, any measure of joy
derived from things in Satan’s world
—such as pursuing wealth, wrongdoing,
extreme views of work,
or friendships in the world—
is a false joy that is short-lived.
Think back to our illustration of the tree.
Can a tree survive if its roots
have been poisoned with chemicals?
Of course not.
Well, how long will we experience joy
if we seek it
in this poisonous world of Satan?
Not long at all.
This symposium will contrast
what the world teaches about joy
with what God’s Word teaches.
As you listen and watch,
consider these questions:
Why do the world’s ways
of finding joy not work?
And am I pursuing
what truly contributes to joy?
In this talk, we’ll discuss how pursuing
a simple life contributes to joy.
The world teaches that pursuing wealth
and having money will make you happy.
And an illustration of Jesus
in Luke chapter 12 highlights that point.
Please turn there with me, Luke chapter 12.
In the illustration,
the land of a rich man produced well.
He planned on building bigger storehouses.
And notice, Luke 12:19,
what the man said himself:
“You have many good things
stored up for many years;
take it easy, eat, drink, enjoy yourself.”
So the man thought
that because of having many good things,
he could enjoy them for many years.
But notice what God told him,
according to verse 20:
“Unreasonable one, this night
they are demanding your life from you.
Who, then, is to have the things
you stored up?”
So in reality, the man’s joy
from pursuing wealth was short-lived.
To further illustrate this point,
as you watch the following dramatization,
consider how a brother
responds to an offer of more money
and how it affects his joy.
You wanted to see me?
Yeah, come on in and go ahead
and close the door, please.
Thanks for coming up.
Yeah, absolutely.
Ben, all of your projects have
come in on schedule and under budget.
We’re really impressed, and we want
to move you up to the management team.
Wow!
Now, you’ll head up
the whole division to start.
Management team
—I liked the sound of that,
not to mention the pay raise and the bonuses.
It did sound like a lot more work,
but Victor was so positive.
There may be a little overtime
here and there,
but I wouldn’t worry about it
—not with your skill.
He told me I could think
about it before deciding.
But come on, this was a no-brainer.
The new position was great!
And the money—well,
that wasn’t too bad either.
It was exciting
to work directly with clients,
but the hours
were crazy.
It’s been said that the easy thing to do
and the right thing
to do are seldom the same.
We see an example of this
in this week’s Bible reading.
True worship,
the right thing, was not easy
but required hard work.
King Hezekiah demonstrated
his zeal for Jehovah’s worship . . .
So our question for the audience is,
How could we explain this to someone?
Ava, please.
Most nights, I was wiped out.
All around the world,
many people wonder if life has any purpose.
And I have to admit
that even when I wasn’t working, . . .
I’m so sorry.
Can you take this door for me?
Twenty minutes.
I was working.
OK.
As highlighted in the video,
why will pursuing money not make us happy?
Because we wouldn’t be
following Jehovah’s advice,
and that would cause us
to fall into “a snare,” or trap,
as mentioned at 1 Timothy 6:9.
Without our even realizing it,
that snare can consume our time
—time that we need to be spending
on spiritual things.
How was that shown in the video?
Well, the pay raise, bonuses,
new car, and other things
may have made our brother happy
for a short time.
However, did you notice how
pursuing money was a snare for him?
Most nights he was exhausted
from working long hours.
He arrived late
to the meeting and fell asleep.
And did you notice what happened
to his participation in the field ministry
—the most important work on earth?
It suffered, didn’t it?
He wasn’t prepared, and he experienced
interruptions from his workplace.
It’s true that money is useful.
We need it to buy food,
shelter, and clothing.
But trading spiritual things for wealth
is always a poor investment.
On the other hand,
a life focused on serving Jehovah
is a simple life
that brings deep and lasting joy.
Jesus emphasized this
in his words at Matthew 6:22:
“If, then, your eye is focused,
your whole body will be bright.”
The basic meaning of the Greek word
for “focused” is “single or simple.”
“It can convey the idea of singleness
of mind or devotion to one purpose.”
For example,
if we focus our life on material things,
they could take up a lot
of our time and energy,
and we may not take time
to pray, study, or preach.
How much better to follow
Jesus’ instruction and keep our life simple!
By focusing on putting
God’s service first in our life,
we’ll have true joy.
As you watch the following dramatization,
consider how our brother gains joy
when he makes a different decision.
We’re really impressed, and we want
to move you up to the management team.
Wow!
Now, you’ll head up
the whole division to start.
Victor’s offer really took me by surprise.
And wow!
The perks were tempting!
But I knew there was a lot at stake,
so I told him I’d talk to Lisa
and get back to him tomorrow.
What was this job going to mean
for our spiritual goals?
Would we still be able
to keep our life simple?
Were we ready to trade
our time together as a family
for more money?
The next day,
I told Victor how much
I appreciated the opportunity
but felt that it just wasn’t
the right fit for our family.
Money was tight, but we were OK.
We had what we needed.
Saying no to that promotion
meant holding off on a few upgrades,
but it also meant more time
for meeting preparation, . . .
Thank you, Brother Miller.
Let’s go on and look at the—
. . .  more time for the ministry,
and more time
for each other.
Did you notice the happiness
of our brother and his family
when he decided to live a simple life?
But why does a simple life
bring us happiness?
Ecclesiastes 5:12 highlights one reason.
Let’s look at that together
—Ecclesiastes 5:12.
Why does a simple life bring us happiness?
The verse says:
“Sweet is the sleep of the one serving,
“whether he eats little or much,
“but the plenty belonging to the rich one
does not permit him to sleep.”
So those who possess much
may be anxious about losing their possessions
and thus lose sleep worrying about them.
In contrast, those with little materially
have less to worry about,
and they can enjoy,
as the verse says, “sweet . . . sleep.”
The point:
When we refuse to allow material things
to interfere with our sacred service,
we gain satisfaction, peace, and joy.
So if you’re presented with an offer
like the one given
to our brother in the video,
what should you do?
First, pray.
Pray for help to make a decision
that will be pleasing to Jehovah.
Then, ask yourself:
Will this decision complicate my life?
And how will this affect
the time I spend serving Jehovah?
Questions like those
helped our brother in the video
to make a decision that brought great joy.
Remember, any decision you make
that promotes a simple life
focused on serving Jehovah
will lead to joy that “is well-founded,
with roots reaching deep in God’s Word.”
May all of us attain the true joy
that comes from living a simple life.
But a simple life
is not the only thing that leads to joy.
Listen as Brother Robert Ciranko,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
now considers the next talk
of this symposium,
“What Contributes to Joy?
—A Clean Conscience.”